This video is brought to you by vincero watches.
What's up guys, Jared,
here to talk about a movie that feels about as cheerful as living in 2020.
Of course. I mean, Snowpiercer, Bonjean,
Ho's 2013 film based on a 1982 French graphic novel that might mildly haunt your
dreams unless you're really stoked about cockroach protein bars.
At first glance to film seems like a reasonable precursor to Obama's more recent
grim meditation on income inequality in parasite,
but when some of the snow starts to melt away,
you'll see there's so much more than meets the eye at the core of Snowpiercer
are two basic questions.
One is the system we live in inevitable and two, if so,
what should we do about it? And also something about ancient Roman law.
We'll get to that.
Welcome to this wisecrack edition on Snowpiercer and spoilers ahead for the end
of the world. But before we get into it,
I want to give a shout out to this video sponsor vincero than shero makes luxury
watches that cost less than other premium brands. They're bold,
stylish and handy.
If you just want to know the time I got the chrono S in matte black,
and I like how it makes me feel like I can dress up any outfit just by putting
it on. I also liked that it reduces the need for me to carry my phone around.
That's the point of a watch, but it's underrated these days.
Vincero also makes bracelets and other accessories. That could be a great gift.
It's great for dads who are hard to shop for, and to personalize it,
you can get a customing raving. Vincero has over 20 1005 star reviews.
And right now they're having a site-wide sale.
So you can get up to 20% off by going to VIN Sheryl watches.com/wisecrack sale,
or by hitting the link in the description,
the discount will be applied automatically at checkout. Again, that's been Cero
watches.com/wisecrack sale for up to 20% off. And now back to the show,
but first a quick recap meet Snowpiercer a world touring train that's.
After a global apocalypse became home to the last remains of humanity in the
most literal cast system imaginable,
rich people exist in luxury in the front of the train while poor folks exist in
squalor in the back, everyone is supposed to worship Wilford, the trains,
conductor and architect who sucks,
Curtis a kind of revolutionary Steve Rogers type reluctantly leads a revolt to
take control of the train spurred on by his mentor,
Gilliam a kind of more metal Nick fury Curtis,
and his Motley crew embark on a bloody journey to the front of the train along
the way they learned that the train is home to a one dope aquarium and sushi bar
be a somewhat disturbing nightclub and see sustainable agriculture. You know,
something for everyone. Finally, Curtis meets Wilford,
who explains that this whole revolution, like all the ones that proceeded,
it was planned as a means of population control.
For optimum balance. However,
there have been times when more radical solutions were required when the
population needed to be reduced rather
drastically and Gilliam was in on it too. But don't tell me,
you didn't know Gilliam and I, our plan.
Also Wilford, who is old at this point, what's Curtis to take his place,
but I attempted Curtis spots, one too many labor laws being broken and refuses.
He then orders his comrade to blow the whole thing up.
There are two survivors the end.
So let's just address the Milton Friedman shaped elephant in the room.
This movie like a lot of bongs work is very much about capitalism.
A group of people is divided into the haves and have nots,
any resistance to this divide threatens to derail society figuratively and
literally, and also we're pretty sure the internships are unpaid.
One of Snowpiercer,
his primary themes is how inevitable and natural this cruel system seems.
It even comes complete with a whole semi religion to perpetuate belief in
itself.
I belong to the front.
You belong to the tail.
When the foot see supplies to the head,
the sacred line is crossed.
And it's not just the social order that is treated as inescapable for that
matter.
Wilfred's perpetually moving train is treated as the only source of life itself.
It's literally the only option.
Do you ever go outside the train?
We all die.
If the engine stops running, wait all die.
Here. Any alternative to the status quo is literal suicide.
While trains frequently symbolize maternity and progress.
This train travels on an endless loop, making any semblance of progress.
Illusory it's literally just going around in circles.
The inevitability of this trains caste system could be better understood with
scholar Mark.
Fisher's writing on the concept of capitalist realism as Fisher rights.
Capitalist realism is the widespread sense that not only is capitalism,
the only viable political and economic system,
but also that it is now impossible.
Even to imagine a coherent alternative to it.
Basically it's easier to imagine the literal apocalypse than it is to imagine
the end of capitalism in the capitalist realist framework.
There's no escaping our relentless adherence to capitalism,
no matter how brutal the effects might be.
If that sounds all like Snowpiercer scholar, Jerry Canavan agrees,
and he wrote a whole paper about it.
Everything on the train exists under the guise of necessity.
Those in power are merely trying to protect the collective.
Even if that means brutally hammering a guy's arm off to prove their dumb point.
Of course,
all the talk of order and preordained roles happens a bit differently in the
real world, but the logic is the same.
Everyone has their preordained position and everyone is in their place except
you. That's what people in the best place say to people in the worst place.
Inequality of course is necessary for the economy to persist any tweakings of
the free market will cause famine or end with gulags as Fisher puts it
capitalist realism, posits that any problem can be solved by the market.
Much as economists have long championed the simple beauty of the law of supply
and demand for distributing resources,
those in charge of the train to champion the power of balance and order in
feeding everyone.
We must always strive for balance air water,
food supply population.
Ultimately,
the beauty of this so-called balance is incredibly ironic because in order to
maintain it,
the wealthy must orchestrate false revolutions as a means of depopulating the
poor,
just as casually as they eat sushi twice a year to control the fish population.
This is only served twice in a year in January and July.
Why not enough fish? Oh,
we know it's not the criterion balance.
The system is fundamentally unbalanced and requires extensive intervention to
maintain itself.
Not unlike the way real-world capitalism relies on bailouts for giant
corporations and big banks. In this case though,
it's the train that is literally too big to fail,
but there's more depressing ideas to be found in.
Snowpiercer consider the way life is treated in this world.
74% of the poor are killed off without a second thought.
Precisely 74% of you shall die.
Mothers have their children taken away recruited as slave labor life in the tail
seems hardly worth living.
Here's where we get into the idea of Negro capitalism,
the depressing sibling of Negro power,
which we talked about in our mad max video,
because we apparently just love death,
adjacent content Niekro capitalism as conceived by scholars,
sub abroad to Bobby banners.
G is the practices of organizational accumulation by IE gaining wealth that
involve violence, dispossession, and death.
In order for this system to work banners,
you explains governments must create certain spaces of exception or individuals
do not possess rights, which is the tail section to a T.
They are subject to violent policing forbidden from free movement and deprived
of any autonomy.
So what happens to humans in spaces of exception to explain banners,
you recalls philosophers,
Giorgio gunman's analysis with the ancient Roman legal concept of the homo
soccer Latin for sacred man. The homo soccer in Rome was killable,
but not sacrificing. In other words,
they were so valueless that you could just grand theft auto them and leave
someone fatherless,
but you couldn't do so in a religiously meaningful kind of sacrificial murder
way.
The point is the homo soccer doesn't even have the benefit of being oppressed
within and by the law.
There's simply outside of the law banner G and a Gambon point to all kinds of
modern equivalents of people living as homo.
Soccer's a Gambon wrote of people in concentration camps so existed in this
extra legal health zone while banners G sites,
the victims of imperialism and colonization in the search for profit,
the lives lost due to environmental degradation,
unsafe working conditions or resource Wars are a kind of homo soccer in
Snowpiercer to the tail Enders exist in this strange outside of the law,
but not really position of the home of soccer.
Their lives are essentially meaningless,
except insofar as they can be useful to those who actually matter.
Are there any experienced violinists here.
Selectively slaughters them like deer, but flippantly saves 18 people spare 18.
To celebrate our 18th.
Year, just to show that he can, because he's a canoe, banders.
He uses these ideas to posit that aspects of our economy are literally built on
death and suffering. Whether it be a worker who dies in a mining accident,
a forest ecosystem that has plowed away to make room for a factory or a
mercenary soldier who kills for pay if Negro power is the politics of death,
Negro capitalism,
the economic system of death for profit to understand Snowpiercer Canavan
combines, Fisher's capitalist realism with banners, GS net grow capitalism,
taking the economics of death and projecting it into the future.
As the only viable outcome in a concept he calls Negro futurism,
or in his words,
those capitalists realist anticipations of the coming decades then anticipate
the future as a devastated world of death, you know,
like a world ruined by climate change and the definitely not idiotic idea about
how to fix it as Canavan writes,
Necker futurism positive future that is doomed to continue modern capitalisms
unsustainable and immoral practices.
Even as those practices become more and more destructive. And self-defeating,
he argues that such a vision is the dominant modern conception of the future.
Whereas we once imagined to cool future with jet packs and rat alien sex. Today,
we can only speculate if the 2030s will out suck it's 20th century predecessor
Necker futurism started blooming in the 1970s with movies like soil and green,
which imagines a world ravaged by environmental destruction and overpopulation
to posit a very gross scenario that we won't ruin for you.
Soylent green is made out of.
The sheep, look up, which imagines in America.
So toxified by capitalist tendencies that the air is not safe to breathe.
And Oh, you have to pay up for some clean oxygen.
Each story depicts capitalism as stupendously enduring,
even as it leads to rampant debt and destruction,
Negro futurism has become so ubiquitous now as to be arguably the primary form
of futurism seen everywhere from Wally to the hunger games,
to the road to Westworld to adventure time.
Now Niekro futurism is certainly vividly depicted in Snowpiercer.
We have the post-apocalyptic world where in response to.
Mankind's warming up the planet.
Because presumably by rampant global capitalism,
79 countries released the artificial substance CW seven into the atmosphere,
which ironically freezes the world and kills most of humanity.
This is particularly Negro futuristic here.
Capitalist logic has destroyed the world, not once but twice,
but unlike other bleak apocalypse films Snowpiercer tries to actively combat the
Negro futurism of our own imaginations rather than being a Negro futuristic film
as such, it's arguably a critique of Negro futurism as Canavan argues,
life aboard the train was not an inevitable reality.
Rather it was a deliberately designed atrocity machine. Someone laid the tracks,
someone built the train.
Someone is even now driving the cars and stoking the engine. A cramming,
a bunch of people into one car to subsist on cockroach bars is inevitable.
It's only because someone I E Wilford deliberately wasted space on an entire car
of pools or another one of saunas and whatever the hell this one is.
If the kind of order Wilford wants is necessary,
it's only because he designed it to be.
So the artificiality of the world is best demonstrated by the deliberate and
intensive system of propaganda in necessitates, as seen in the classroom scene,
such propaganda and Wilford warship is imperative to maintaining this arbitrary
order. Even those more fortunate.
This brings us to the end of the film where Curtis has the option of inheriting
Wilfred's position,
thus maintaining order and taking on his supposedly preordained role.
But he doesn't.
Instead he sacrifices his arm to save a child and instructs his friend to blow a
hole in the train, which causes an avalanche that seems to kill almost everyone,
a board, but what's such destruction necessary. At the beginning of the film,
Curtis promises his friends that when they take over the front of the train,
things will be different.
They will rule justly and fairly will be different when we get there,
having seen what he seen and learned that even the Novo Gilliam is complicit in
the train's brutal architecture. He appears to no longer Harbor any such hope,
rather in a fitting allegory for total revolution,
Curtis ultimately decides that there is no better life to be had aboard this
train that the only escape is to tear it down entirely in the hopes that
something new might spring out of it.
And it does two so-called train baby survive and step on the solid land
for the first time as they wander out. There are two ways we can view this one.
These kids are literally screwed and potentially might be eaten by that cute
polar bear or two they're venturing out onto untouched,
snow to metaphorically construct a new world, a better,
more compassionate mode of human existence.
So kind of hopeful against all odds rather than merely warning about a Negro
capitalist future.
The film offers important lessons on orienting revolutionaries to bung appears
to more than just a little hope will have rise up against the system.
He reviles most notably the lesson that rebelling with people of different
backgrounds and from different stations in life is critical for a revolution to
succeed.
The members of the tail end are diverse and not all of them even speak the same
language. Get a translator device allows Curtis to work with the higher status.
Nam goons was fallen due to his drug addiction.
Similar moments of solidarity come in our torch marathon to the front lines
where everyone, men, women,
and children provide a valuable role in the battle to the front.
This stands in stark contrast to bongs more recent film parasite in which
members of the working class bicker over crumbs from their benefactors.
Instead of working together with these different backgrounds come different
knowledge.
Indeed it's clear that Nam goon understands the snow is melting because of his
past relationship with an in-unit woman.
[Inaudible] like.
Her. He is convinced that the earth is warming.
New of me. [inaudible].
Later.
We see him preoccupied with a single snowflake and eventually deploying his snow
knowledge to create an avalanche and derail the train.
It's also worth noting that this cooperation is often juxtaposed with those on
the top, the train crew to use translators,
but only to bark orders at the masses and in the classroom.
A poster of native Americans has shown in the background,
perhaps asking us to consider what it means to treat a group of people as an
object of study, rather than to learn from them.
All of this seems quite fitting for a film by bong, Joon,
ho who is often credited with forging the way for a new transnational form of
film. But what do you guys think?
Are we being too optimistic or is there secretly hoping embedded in this at
first totally depressing or is everything just awful forever?
Let us know what you think in the comments, Matt,
thanks to our incredible patrons for supporting the podcast and our channel hit
that subscribe button. And before you go,
I just want to give one last shout out to our sponsor.
Vincero if you're still looking for a gift for father's day or a nice gift to
treat yourself, then head on over to vincero watches.com/wise crack sale,
and you can get up to 20% off your purchase. And again,
thanks for watching guys. Peace.
[Inaudible].